Plotly concepts express terms histogram (#4911)
Codecademy/docs: content/plotly/concepts/express/terms/histogram/histogram.md

---
Title: '.histogram()'
Description: 'Creates histogram - a graphical representation of the distribution of data in the form of bars, that represent the frequency of occurrence of individual values in a data set.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Computer science'
  - 'Data scinence'
Tags: 
  - 'Data'
  - 'Graphs'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Libraries'
  - 'Plotly'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'

>   - 'paths/data-science-foundations'

Reviewer: Keep only 2 slugs:
- A free course
- A Pro course/Path

---

> In Plotly, the **`.histogram()`** method as a part of the `plotly.express` interface, is used to make a graphical representation of data as an accumulated bar chart where, each stocked data is counted and represented. This method offers several functions like sum, average, count and more, which can be used to visualize data on categorical and date axes or linear axes. The elements of histogram graph are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Plotly, the `**.histogram()**` method in the `plotly.express` module is used to create a graphical representation of data as a bar chart that shows the distribution of a dataset. The bars represent the count of data points within specified ranges (bins). This method also allows for aggregation functions like sum, average, and count, which can be applied to visualize data on categorical, date, or linear axes. 

The elements of the histogram graph are:
```

 - The title: describes the information represented in the histogram.
 - X-axis: intervals that show the scale of values which measures all fall under.
 - Y-axis: the number of times that the values occurred within the intervals set by the X-axis.
 - The bars: The height of the bar shows the number of times that the values occurred within the interval, width of the bar shows the interval that is covered.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> plotly.express.histogram(data_frame=None, x=None, y=None, color=None, pattern_shape=None, facet_row=None, facet_col=None, facet_col_wrap=0, facet_row_spacing=None, facet_col_spacing=None, hover_name=None, hover_data=None, animation_frame=None, animation_group=None, category_orders=None, labels=None, color_discrete_sequence=None, color_discrete_map=None, pattern_shape_sequence=None, pattern_shape_map=None, marginal=None, opacity=None, orientation=None, barmode='relative', barnorm=None, histnorm=None, log_x=False, log_y=False, range_x=None, range_y=None, histfunc=None, cumulative=None, nbins=None, text_auto=False, title=None, template=None, width=None, height=None)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plotly.express.histogram(
    data_frame,    # Your DataFrame containing the data
    x,             # Column name for the x-axis (required)
    y=None,        # Optional column name for the y-axis
    color=None,    # Optional column name for color grouping
    facet_row=None,# Optional column name to split data into rows
    facet_col=None,# Optional column name to split data into columns
    hover_data=None,# Optional list of column names for hover info
    marginal=None, # Optional to add marginal plots (e.g., 'rug', 'box')
    opacity=None,  # Optional opacity for bars
    orientation=None,# 'v' or 'h' for vertical or horizontal bars
    barmode='relative', # Bar stacking mode: 'relative', 'overlay', etc.
    title=None,    # Optional title for the plot
    template=None, # Optional Plotly template (e.g., 'plotly_dark')
    width=None,    # Optional plot width
    height=None    # Optional plot height
)
```

```
The parameters recommended to learn are:
- `data_frame`: The dataset containing the variables to be plotted.
- `x`: The data for the x-axis.
- `nbins`: The number of bins in the histogram (i.e., the number of bars). The argument of this parameter should be an positive integer.
- `color_discrete_sequence`: The color of histogram. It changes the color of the bars. The argument of this parameter can be a string like ‘red‘, ‘yellow‘, or ‘blue‘, or hexadecimal colors.
- `title`: The title of the figure.

## Example

The below example shows how to use the `.histogram()` method to create box plots:

```py

> # Importing plotly.express as px
> import plotly.express as px
> 
> # Loading a built-in data frame
> df = px.data.tips()
> 
> # Creating the histogram with the total_boll as the x variable and integer "20" as nbins
> fig = px.histogram(df, x="total_bill", nbins=20)
> 
> # Showing the histogram plot
> fig.show()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Importing plotly.express as px
import plotly.express as px

# Loading a built-in data frame
df = px.data.tips()

# Creating the histogram with "total_bill" as the x variable and integer 20 as nbins
fig = px.histogram(df, x="total_bill", nbins=20)

# Showing the histogram plot
fig.show()
```

---
Title: '.histogram()'
Description: 'Creates a histogram which is a graphical representation of the distribution of a dataset.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Computer science'
  - 'Data scinence'
Tags: 
  - 'Data'
  - 'Graphs'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Libraries'
  - 'Plotly'
CatalogContent:

>   - 'learn-python-3'
>   - 'paths/computer-science'
>   - 'paths/data-science'
>   - 'paths/data-science-foundations'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```
